Ali,
can you talk a little bit about how
the media, you know, corporate
mainstream pro-state media is covering
this and and and and what you're looking
at.
Well, since we only have a very short
time, I'm just going to make a couple of
of points and point to a couple of
things that I think are worth noticing.
Remember that Donald Trump, Pete
Hegseth, the US war secretary
or secretary of defeat as I like to call
him,
are all saying this is a fantastic
victory, a stunning victory and the US
is doing so well. But, what is actually
being said? So, I'm going to point to
two stories. One The first one a lot of
people talking about is in the New York
Times. It's a long story headlined how
Trump took the US to war with Iran.
And
it says that in early February well, it
talks about the key role Israel played
in early February. Benjamin Netanyahu
went to the White House and made his
pitch. He told Donald Trump that Iran
was ripe for regime change and promised
a fast decisive victory. Israeli
officials even staged a stick slick
presentation with the intelligence
chiefs there on video, the head of the
Mossad, David Barnea. And it worked.
Trump reportedly reacted, "Sounds good
to me."
But, when US intelligence officials took
a hard look, the story fell apart. The
CIA director Ratcliffe
called key parts of Israel's plan
farcical. Even Secretary of State Marco
Rubio called it pardon my French,
Israel's top general, chairman
of the Joint Chiefs of Staff Dan Cain
told Trump, "Sir, this is in my
experience standard operating procedure
for the Israelis. They oversell and
their plans are not always well
developed. They know they need us and
that's why they're hard selling."
Advisers also warned Trump that it would
be impossible to stop Iran controlling
the Strait of Hormuz. None of that
stopped the momentum. Trump was fixated
on killing Ayatollah Ali Khamenei,
Iran's leader, and crushing its military
and just brushed aside all doubts. Only
one person in the room really pushed
back and that was Vice President J.D.
Vance. He warned of regional chaos,
spiraling costs, and unpredictable
retaliation.
But, ultimately Vance said he would
support whatever the president decided
and he and everyone else went along and
and Trump made the call, "I think we
need to do it."
Now, in part this article reads like an
effort to exonerate Vice President J.D.
Vance of responsibility, perhaps to
preserve his political prospects. But,
we wouldn't be seeing this story if the
war was a stunning success. This is
part of the blame game and it's also
remarkable to see Israel's role given
such prominence. Normally, the New York
Times would conceal the Israeli
influence, but that's part of pushing
the responsibility off of the United
States and onto Israel. Of course, this
is the US is responsible. A second
article
appears in the Washington Post.
A couple This is just 2 days ago,
earlier this week. And the headline
there, "Hegseth's boastful claims about
Iran contradict reality, officials say."
So, this is citing unnamed
administration officials throwing Pete
Hegseth under the bus. I'll just read
one sentence from this article.
>> [cough]
>> "Pete is not speaking truth to the
president," one administration official
said. "As a result, the president is out
there repeating misleading information."
So, we can expect that Pete Hegseth is
not going to stay in his job very long.
Again, we do not see too many senior
officials rushing to claim
ownership and credit for this uh
incredibly successful war. And then
Asa, I think you've been looking at how
uh top Israeli politicians have been
talking about this. Tell us very quickly
what's going on there. Yeah, there's
been sort of
mutual recriminations amongst the
Israeli politicians about the war which
Netanyahu's opponents perceive to be
an unprecedented defeat actually. I
mean, even allowing for
the fact that they have their own
political axes to grind in terms of the
upcoming elections expected inside um
the Zionist entity later this year.
They are using extremely strong
language. You can see this the tweet
here on the screen from Yair Lapid, the
leader of the
opposition in the Knesset describing the
the temporary ceasefire, truce, whatever
you you know, you want to call it,
whatever is actually going to happen.
Nevertheless, he's describing it as
a real disaster. He says he says
there's never been such a political
disaster in all of our history. Israel
wasn't even at the table when decisions
were made by the US, he means obviously,
concerning the core of our national
security.
You know, he's obviously supporting the
military, supporting the genocide and so
on and so forth, but saying it will take
years to repair the political and
strategic damage that Netanyahu has
wrought due to arrogance and lack of
strategic planning. The next one is
another Israeli opposition leader.
Sorry, there's a set Sorry, thanks Yes,
tomorrow, you're right. Um there's a
second one from Yair Lapid where, you
know, he's he's
making a speech on TV and said,
"Netanyahu led us to a strategic
collapse." I mean,
that's that's pretty significant that
you know, he's saying that, you know.
Again, these are opposition in name
only, right? They're supporting the
genocide, they're supporting the
destruction of Iran. They're just saying
Netanyahu's not doing it effectively
enough. And the next one
is from
Golan, who is the head of the Labor
Party, I believe.
They're called something else now. The
Democrats, I think it
Who cares? But, the historic
Labor Party
inside so-called Israel,
they're much smaller now than they used
to be, of course. They carried out some
of the worst crimes in the history
against the Palestinians including the
Nakba and the invasion of 1967.
Anyway, they're they're a much smaller
opposition force now, but nevertheless,
he as well is saying, "Netanyahu
promised a historic victory
and in practice we got one of the most
severe strategic failures Israel has
ever known." Again, allowing for you
know, their political and electoral axes
to grind. Very strong language. You can
see Israelis themselves, Israeli
political leaders themselves or some of
them consider this to be a very
significant setback for them.
And let's not deny them their defeat.
>> [laughter]